---
layout: post
author: Renovatio
category: interview
title:  "Awesome Dads Sighted (ADS) - I am a Dad planning on playing Destiny :)"     
tags: interview awesome.dad.sighted ads bungie
image: /img/embed/interview-adam-pino.jpg
---


## Awesome Dads Sighted (ADS)

### Adam Pino and I’m a networking engineer at Bungie.




> Let’s talk about your gaming history from the beginning, 


I’ve liked video games since I was probably four or five. I went to school that had some AppleII’s and they had some games on it, then I was instantly interested in that. Then after that, I got my own computers and consoles. I’ve always had a bad habit of being on the unfortunate end of the console purchases. I’ve had Sega Master System, and then I got the Atari Lynx.

> What drew you to those? Was it a game or the hardware platform and how different it was?

Generally it was… that was the problem, you know the power of the platform? The Sega Master System could display twice as many colors as Nintendo. And the Lynx was pretty good for its time, it was pretty advanced, it had a pretty good processor. That’s when I learned that I should worry about the software more than the hardware. 

> Sounds like you were a hardware geek in the beginning.

I taught myself, while helping friends, i taught myself how to program when I was kid so I could learn how to do this myself. For a brief time I thought I wanted to draw comic books, but then I ended up being more interested in programming then drawing and I got interested into games.

> With programming, what was your first language?


Applesoft BASIC, good old Applesoft on AppleII. Mainly learning how it worked, I learned how to draw a Batman face and silly things like that.

> So who was the gamer in the house when you were growing?

It was just me. (> So whatever system you bought, it was yours). Yeah, I was an only child, so I got lucky. I use to work the summer with my dad, finishes drywall, and I would save up all summer to buy the next big gaming console (you use to go to the job site with him?) Yes, I would help him. 

> It’s good to have a multifaceted set of talents, you can work on a house, you can program, you’re an artist. That’s pretty good set of skills there. That’s amazing.

Yeah, well, I’m not that good of an artist. If I had practiced more, maybe. 

> What was the first game that keep you up until sunrise?

Til sunrise? Honestly, probably, it was Quake multiplayer, but Civ2 keep me pretty close sunrise. With the original Quake, I had a bad internet connection, like I had a modem, and this was back before Quake World. We had to had to hack, I pirated a TCP/IP driver for DOS, then hack it to call my ISP so I can play Quake over a modem - only to have a terrible experience because everyone else was in college with low pings, but I still did that. (> So their rockets would get you before you knew where they were?) Yeah. It didn’t have any client prediction at all, it was terrible slow and choppy and weird. 

> I had a similar experience and I remember when I did LAN, it was amazing! 

Actually at the time I was working at Microscope company that was trying to start a game developer - it was weird, I was in High School and we had two (2) computers at that we actually put Quake on there, it was fun there! And I wanted to keep playing at home and it was just terrible! But I still did it!

> Was that your first LAN Party at work? (We call them “team building exercises”, right?)

Yeah, after 5 every day, just load up the Quake. Actually it was Doom for a while, then Quake.

- Oh, Doom - YES! That was the first [game] for me that kept me up until sunrise.

I can see that.

- Are LAN parties kind of rare these days?

Yeah, I use to get computer together for a while with my friends every once and while, I guess that counts. I never really went to a big LAN party, like you see. But the last time I did that it was for Halo 3. We got everyone together and played Halo 3 Co-Op - 4 players with 3 TVs, it was pretty awesome! 

- I’m a real big snacker when a new games comes out. So I’ll start - well my wife does most of the shopping, so I’ll ask her for somethings so my collection of munchies - things like chips and cheesy poofs, things like that - they start to pile up and when I get a new game that comes out, I’m like in heaven. Everything I need is next to me and stuff. Are you the same way where you kind of prepare for a new game?

Uh, not so much, I haven’t done that in a while. I don’t know - it’s - when I would play for a while before I had my son, I use to play a lot of games because I worked in games and always wanted to know about all the latest games. So even like a “special” release wasn’t that “special”, now it’s a little different where I don’t have as much time so its kind of getting to that point again. So I will do a little bit, I’ll make sure that I have a few beers around or I’ll order a pizza or something. 

- Pizza and beer, definately! Are you a Craft Beer Drinker as well?

Pretty much, I mean, I yeah I’m pretty picky with beer like I tend to like the super hoppy IPAs, or Belgian Beer, like high alcohol Belgian Beer.

- After this we should get together on Untappd

I should get on Untappd!

- I have some guys from EA and Respawn on there, it’s a really good way to go off the beaten path and stop grabbing the same bottle 

That’s good.

- I’m same as you, I love the hops! Yeah I cannot deviate. But the Marzen are coming out right now for Octoberfest - its another go-to for me.

Nice!

- What led you into the business of gaming, originally you had said that you wanted a comic designer or comic artist, how did that steer you into developing games?

- I had a friend where [him] and I would draw comics a lot. And I was really into comics when I was 13, like I thought they were the coolest thing. For the next couple was into that and I always pretty good at drawing. Also, I was always discouraged at drawing comic though because I couldn’t ever develop a very good line. Like comic inkers have really clean lines they use to draw, and I could never pull that off and my stuff never looked that good. I started to get discouraged and I always just loved video games. I knew there was something about game development but I didn’t totally understand it. So when I was in high school, I had a chance to go to a mentoring program, which is kind of line an internship at this local company that supposedly was making games - I was like sure, I’ll try that! So I went in did an interview and got in, and they weren’t making any games. It was a couple of kind of old guys who weren’t even really gamers, they had this idea that they should make games for girls because no one was doing that. Which was not the worse idea, they just didn’t have any idea how to go about it. And obviously neither one of them were girls. So I pitched this totally crazy, like cyber-punk, like adventure game that we could make. It was going to be in 3D and have this cool stuff, and they totally bought it. I had no idea how to do that or what I was doing, but they ended up bringing all these kids in. We didn’t make that game, we ended up shipping a isometric action-rpg call Neophyte and it just a bunch of high school kids and one professional developer came to help, but wrote almost all the code ourselves. So then, that kind of got me something, like a little experience. Then I kind of lucked into a job in Denver, where they were - honestly - just filling seats, you know, with whoever they could get. They hired me and I did OK there, and I that led to another job where I shipped something. Then I ended up working on some pretty big stuff over Pandemic [Studios]. And the rest is kind of history.

- So many games have you shipped to date?

Let me see… well, I’ll go through it…

I shipped a game, a PS2 game called My Street [ http://www.playstation.com/en-us/games/my-street-ps2/ + http://www.gamestop.com/ps2/games/my-street/21690 ] which for what it was, it did OK.

And then I shipped Full Spectrum Warrior [ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Full_Spectrum_Warrior + http://www.gamestop.com/ps2/games/full-spectrum-warrior/37801 ] at Pandemic

And then I worked on Saboteur [ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Saboteur + http://www.gamestop.com/ps3/games/the-saboteur/72977 ]

And then I came here and did Halo 4 [ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halo_4 + http://www.gamestop.com/xbox-360/games/halo-4/91448 ] 

And then I guess this will be number 5? Destiny [ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Destiny_(video_game) + http://www.gamestop.com/xbox-one/games/destiny/110091 ] 

- So in the span of 15 yrs, is it? I’m trying to do the math in my head

Let me think, pretty much the first game I shipped came out in 2002. So its about 12 yrs, 5 games.

- That’s pretty incredible

Yeah, well. Saboteur was really long - it was a really long project, it took 5 yrs

- Do you like shorter projects or do you like longer, or something in the middle - what’s your preference?

I really don’t ever want to work on a project as long as Saboteur again, if I can help it. It’s just too much, like you just feel like you never get anywhere. I mean it great when you finally close it out, and it starts to come together and you’ve waiting so long. I like the 2-to-3 year timeframe. I really like 2 year, but it doesn’t seem possible anymore, given modern development practices. It just seems too hard, there too much content to make in 2 years. But 3 years is OK, that’s about what I did for Halo 4. And I felt that was pretty good. 

- It seems that’s the standard now, for most game is 3 years but everytime that I play a title and get to the end and watch the credits, something inside of me goes: I know everyone does an awesome job and everyone puts a lot of time into it. Then I’m seeing their names [in the credit] and stuff, and 2 things come to mind. This guys and girls worked so hard they probably didn’t get a vacation until the game like released. And the other thing that I think about is sometimes would say that their babies were born during the life the game too. Which is remarkable.

Yeah, I have my son’s name in the Halo 4 credits 

- Oh nice! So it must happen all the time. Everyone has a baby announcement, take some time off, then go back to coding?

Yeah, pretty much. 


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"><p><a href="https://twitter.com/DestinyDads">@DestinyDads</a> I am a Dad planning on playing Destiny :)</p>&mdash; Adam Pino (@pinotorious) <a href="https://twitter.com/pinotorious/status/501879867957211137">August 19, 2014</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

- Could you code at home for the most part?

Oh, I mean, it’s like, honestly most studios are like a regular job. I mean, sometimes, like to be fair I have definitely worked an absolute ton of overtime. Like when I was working at Pandemic [Studios], on Saboteur there was probably a year where I was working 60-70 hour weeks. But I didn’t have any kids, I was crazy, and my wife worked there too. Se we sort of just feed off each other and we didn’t have to go home. Like no one was missing us.

- Yeah, you had your wife there, right?

Yeah, it actually helped. I mean it could've hurt but it didn’t it help and so it does happen. Like that kind of schedule does happen. But like generally its about 8 hours a day, then you go home. And for my son, I took off my month and a half paternity leave, I didn’t work during that time. When I did have to crunch for Halo 4, I was able to set up my schedule so I able to go home, have dinner, help put my son to bed, then go back to work after that. So that wasn’t too bad. 

- And so your son’s 5 now?

He’s almost 4

- I have a 4 who’s going to be 5 in November, I have two daughters, and the other one is going to be 3 in October - Man!

When they go that fast, its like [snaps]


